---
layout: default
title: "How to get to Hogwarts from St.-Petersburg"
date: 2018-10-20
permalink: platform
---

### or how small steps change the world

In August 2017 I built Platform 9 ¾ in Saint-Petersburg.
I’d love to say “for fun” - but no. Here’s the story.

As a member of cycling advocacy organization I’ve been fighting for bike lanes for years. And when in summer 2017 the city finally started building them it was a delight! But soon we all understood that having bike lanes is not enough - it was important to have good ones.

There were many problems with the newly built lanes. One of the lanes was just ridiculous - it led straight into the wall. The only way around was to get off the bike and carry it about 20 steps up the steep staircase, then down again - to the spot where the bike lane kept going. There were many jokes about it: people made memes in social media and photoshopped portals on the wall. At some point I understood it was time to stop laughing and start acting!

This is how Platform 9 ¾ appeared in Saint-P.
A can of paint, a 5\$ stencil, a couple of friends, a bottle of wine and a Gryffindor scarf - that’s what it took.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/74I39NvAE6c" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The next morning I was giving out interviews to all the city media. The platform was all over the news - together with articles on the importance of proper cycling infrastructure.

You can still find the Platform sign on Sverdlovskaya embankment and send me your selfie!
{% include two-pictures.html folder="platform" picture1="1.PNG" picture2="3.PNG" %}

Sorry to say that the lane is also still there - unchanged. I was not hoping to change it immediately - it always takes time to make the city officials improve something.
I know that to draw attention to the problem is the first step to improvements - and this goal was achieved.
I could not draw a bike lane myself - but I drew a simple sign, which makes people smile on their problems. Look how easy it is to bring some magic into our world!
